Portfolio Project Journal

Created a new repo for my portfolio website and renamed the assignment I started on from homework1. When I tried to visit the website it only showed the readme file. I fixed this by naming the files to index.html and index.css.

I'm going to make an outline of the things I want to have on the website so I can complete them as I go.

Outline:
	I want to implement a bar on top that follows the page down with links that redirect to the different sections on the same page.
	
	About me section at the top of the webpage.

	Past Projects section, with pictures, descriptions, and github repo links
	
	Contact me section, I want it to actually work and send me an email to my professional email address, but I'm not sure if time will permit. 
	
	
Had the idea of creating gifs for my repos, I have a couple already for two of my projects, but I'm making a third one right now so at least three of my displayed projects could have a gif when you hover over it.

I've spent the entire day working on the website now. After working on it for a long time and the columns of bootstrap never really working, I realized I added bootstrap into my project incorrectly. I looked up how to do it and did it correctly now, pieces finally started to work correctly for the most part.

I put together the projects section how I wanted it to go. With the project images on the left and descriptionson the right, every other project. Well only three projects, but it still looks good.
I found a color matching website online, added a salmon color I liked and it gave me some good color options for the rest of the surrounding area.
I got gifs to display as you hover over the preview image of each project. This took a long time because the image never really fit perfectly over the gif, but it's good enough, especially if it's centered. I added a little hover word on all the pics incase someone for some reason didn't think to hover over the image.
I added a link button to the github repo for each project, and made it so upon clicking it opens up a new tab (atleast for me it does) instead of taking you there directly.
I set up 90% of the project, just have to make some adjustments, fill out the rest of the words I need before I'm done.
Also unsure if I should make a navbar, if time permits, I'll do it last.
And because I'm not going to have time to implement actually sending me an email through the contact form. I want to make an alert pop up after submitting, that the email functionality is not yet ready and to email me directly.

I added a jumbotron for my name at the top of the webpage and by default it looks pretty good.
I added a picture of myself and made the about me section separate from the top of the page. Resizing these to be the right size consistently is the hard part. I struggled to get the picture and text to line up correctly, so I put them in a bootstrap container so they can be responsive automatically.
Works good.

Messing with the contact me section at the bottom of the page, trying to use bootstraps form-group class to organize it.

Added a github logo inside the link to my github profile, tried to get the color of the image to change as the link is hovered over, but I don't think I'm able to do that since the image is not the entire link area, it would only change if the image itself was hovered over.
Edited a github logo that works well for a dark background and a light one.

I was looking for how to make an image a background, and I ran across the linear-gradient function, and it made my page come alive. I also got the background image to work for the contact me section. 
I applied box-shadows to the projects rows that I designed earlier. Made some transparency and it looks really good.
It's so cool to see this page come together.

I implemented a little alert message when you try to send something in the contact me form. Just in case I use this site, and an employer wants to try and use it, they won't actually think a message sent to my email.
To do this I found a forum post here: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/30050678/show-bootstrap-alert-box-on-a-button-click and a jsfiddle code snippet here: http://jsfiddle.net/g1rnnr8r/2/
Going to add my email in the about section so people will be able to get a hold of me.
I added my email, but wanted to implement a copy to clipboard button. After looking at three tutorials online where the element they were copying from was a textarea or input with type text, I found one that explained it to me. The element needs to be textarea or input so you can call selet() on it. The solution was to copy the information from the <p> element I was using and create a textarea that wasn't going to be seen. It finally works.
Here's the tutorial: https://inspiredwebdev.com/copy-to-clipboard-with-javascript
I think I'm done now, had a fun time making this as soon as I started to understand the grid system in bootstrap better. (mostly after I learned how to correctly import it into my html file)
I don't know if I would do anything differently in terms of how it looks, I think it's really nice.
The biggest thing that made it feel different, was putting in that background color gradient, and the background image behind the contact me form. As soon as those loaded up it felt like a completely different webpage.

Link to public repo: https://github.com/andrewbespaly/andrewbespaly.github.io

Link to deployed website: andrewbespaly.github.io
